<!-- loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403 -->

# Stable IDs: All You Need to Know

Stable IDs are IDs for controls, elements, or components that you set yourself in the respective `id` property or attribute as opposed to IDs that are generated by SAPUI5. *Stable* means that the IDs are concatenated with the application component ID and do not have any auto-generated parts.



<a name="loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_gtm_xlp_3z"/>

## Background

If you don't define IDs, SAPUI5 generates them dynamically. These IDs are not static and might differ from program run to program run. For example, the page and table in the following XML view could have the generated IDs `__page0` and `__table0` at runtime:

```xml
<mvc:View
	xmlns="sap.m"
	xmlns:mvc="sap.ui.core.mvc">
	<Page>
		<content>
			<Table>
			</Table>
		</content>
	</Page>
</mvc:View>

```

The generated IDs change whenever the control structure of the app changes. The sequence of instantiation also plays a role: If there are two views with unstable IDs in the app, depending on the order the views are opened, they get the generated IDs `__view0` and `__view1`. This is an issue for the following features that require stable IDs:

-   SAPUI5 flexibility

    Allows you to adapt apps based on your requirements, for example, by creating variants or changing the user interface at runtime. Stable IDs are used to identify the controls that are to be adapted. For more information, see [SAPUI5 Flexibility: Adapting UIs Made Easy](../04_Essentials/sapui5-flexibility-adapting-uis-made-easy-a8e55aa.md).

-   Automated tests

    To check the behavior of apps at runtime, these tests find controls by searching for stable IDs. If you use OPA in SAPUI5, you're able to find controls via other criteria like control type, display name and others. For more information, see [Integration Testing with One Page Acceptance Tests \(OPA5\)](../04_Essentials/integration-testing-with-one-page-acceptance-tests-opa5-2696ab5.md).

-   Inline help tools

    These tools display user assistance information directly in the app and depend on stable IDs \(example: [Web Assistant](https://enable-now.sap.com/ic/pub/int/index.html?show=group!GR_CF44F241F6233280#group!GR_FE31C8798B894A1)\).


> ### Tip:  
> Stable IDs are an important prerequisite for SAPUI5 flexibility services, automated testing, and inline help tools, such as [Web Assistant](https://enable-now.sap.com/ic/pub/int/index.html?show=group!GR_CF44F241F6233280#group!GR_FE31C8798B894A1). Apps with stable IDs are of high quality and offer customers more functionality. Therefore, we strongly recommend that you use stable IDs whenever possible \(some technical controls don't need stable IDs, such as `CustomData`\).



<a name="loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_setstableid"/>

## How to Set IDs Manually to Keep Them Stable

> ### Tip:  
> Using the rule *Stable control IDs are required for SAPUI5 flexibility services* in the Support Assistant, you can check whether all controls use stable IDs. For more information, see [How to Check If All Your IDs Are Stable](stable-ids-all-you-need-to-know-f51dbb7.md#loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_howtocheck).


<table>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

**Views**



</td>
<td valign="top">

-   Views in the descriptor for applications, components, and libraries

    The standard use case is that you use stable IDs for the view that the router navigates to. Ideally, instead of creating the views yourself, you create them with routing targets and declare the view ID in the manifest.json file as shown in the example below. For more information, see [Routing and Navigation](../04_Essentials/routing-and-navigation-3d18f20.md) and [Descriptor for Applications, Components, and Libraries \(manifest.json\)](../04_Essentials/descriptor-for-applications-components-and-libraries-manifest-json-be0cf40.md).

    Example:

    ```js
    {
    "sap.ui5": {
    	"rootView": {
    		"viewName": "<your namespace>.view.Root",
    		"id" : "rootView",
    		"async": true,
    		"type": "XML"
    	}
    	...
    	"routing": {
    		...
    		"targets": {
    			"myTarget": {
    				"type": "View",
    				"viewType": "XML",
    				"name": "MyView",
    				"id": "myView"
    				}
    			}
    		}
    	}
    }
    
    ```

-   Embedded views

    If you embed your view, set its ID \(such as `myEmbeddedView`\).

    Example:

    ```xml
    <mvc:View xmlns="sap.m"
    	xmlns:mvc="sap.ui.core.mvc">
    	<Page id="page">
    		<mvc:XMLView id="myEmbeddedView" viewName="MyView" async="true" />
    	</Page>
    </mvc:View>
    
    ```

-   Programmatic creation

    If you create the view programmatically, provide the ID as one of the parameters to the constructor or factory function. Make sure to prefix the view ID with the component ID using the `createId` method of the owner component.

    Example:

    ```js
    // "XMLView" required from module "sap/ui/core/mvc/XMLView"
    XMLView.create({
    	id: <component>.createId("myProgrammaticView"),
    	viewName : "<your namespace>.view.ProgrammaticView"
    }).then(function(oView){
    	// code
    });
    
    ```

    For more information, see [namespace sap.ui](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui/methods/view).




</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 **Extension points** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

If you use extension points, use stable IDs for nested views and prefixes for nested controls of a fragment.



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 **Controls** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

-   Controls in XML views

    The XML view prefixes the control IDs \(only the defined IDs, not the automatically created ones\) with its own ID. This allows you to use the same control ID for different views and the same view multiple times. For more information, see [Support for Unique IDs](../04_Essentials/support-for-unique-ids-91f28be.md).

    If the following XML view is instantiated using the ID `myView`, the contained page and table would have the IDs `myView--page` and `myView--table` at runtime:

    ```js
    <mvc:View xmlns="sap.m" xmlns:mvc="sap.ui.core.mvc">
    	<Page id="page">
    		<content>
    			<Table id="table">
    			</Table>
    		</content>
    	</Page>
    </mvc:View>
    
    ```

-   Programmatic creation

    For JavaScript views and JavaScript-generated controls you must use the `createID` method of the view or component. Here's how it could look like when you're creating a control directly in the control code:

    ```xml
    // "Button" required from module "sap/m/Button"
    new Button({
    	id : oView.createId("ConfirmButton"),
    	text : "Confirm"
    });
    ```

-   Binding templates

    Also use stable IDs in binding templates, because the SAPUI5 flexibility tooling allows changes on the binding templates. The cloned controls will be prefixed, but you have to make sure to clean them up. The simplest way to do this is setting the `templateShareable` property to `false` \(for more information, see [Lifecycle of Binding Templates](../04_Essentials/lifecycle-of-binding-templates-3a4a9e5.md)\). If the template has to be shareable and you cannot clean it up, you should at least prevent flexibility changes on the binding template using the `not-adaptable` or `not-adaptable-tree` flags described here: [Restrict adaptation for certain controls](enabling-ui-adaptation-other-things-to-consider-de9fd55.md#loiode9fd55c69af4b46863f5d26b5d796c4__section_restrictadaptation).




</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 **Components** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

> ### Note:  
> The following is only relevant if you do not use the SAP Fiori launchpad because it instantiates components for you and provides IDs.

For example, if you instantiate a component inside an HTML page, set the ID of the component as shown below. The reason for this is that components could be displayed more than once on a page. To get unique IDs for the views and controls inside the component, they must be prefixed with the component ID. All views in the component that are created by the framework are automatically prefixed with the component ID. As described above, for the programmatically generated components, you must do it yourself.

Example:

```js
// "Shell" required from module "sap/m/Shell"
new Shell({
   app: new ComponentContainer({
      height : "100%",
      name : "sap.ui.demo.worklist",
      settings: {
         id: "worklist"
      }
   })
}).placeAt("content");
									
```

> ### Note:  
> Only if there's more than one component in an app, the component container requires a stable ID by setting the component container to `autoPrefixId`. For more information, see [sap.ui.core.ComponentContainer](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.core.ComponentContainer).



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 **Embedded Components** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

If you want to add an embedded component with a stable ID, you have two options:

1.  Option: Add a component re-use entry in the application component's manifest.json. Let's say you want to add an embedded component with the name `embeddedComponent.name`. You define it as follows in the application component's manifest.json file:

    ```json
    "sap.ui5": {
       "componentUsages": {
          "reuseName": {
             "name": "embeddedComponent.name",
             "settings": {
                "id": "embeddedComponentID"
             }
          }
       }
    }
    
    ```

    Now you can use the re-use entry name defining the component container in XML:

    ```xml
    <core:ComponentContainer
       usage="reuseName"
       async="true"
       id="embeddedComponentContainerID"
       propagateModel="true" //to propagate models from the application component
    />
    
    ```

2.  Option: Add an embedded component independently from the manifest and mention the correct namespace using the `name` property. Also, when instantiating the component, make sure that the `id` property is set during component instance creation:

    ```xml
    <core:ComponentContainer
       name = "embeddedComponent.name"
       async="true"
       id="embeddedComponentContainerID"
       propagateModel="true" //to propagate models from the application component
    />
    
    ```

    Inside the embedded component's `constructor()` \(with the `embeddedComponent.name` namespace\) add :

    ```
    [...]
    constructor: function() {
                        arguments[0].id = "embeddedComponentID";
                        UIComponent.prototype.contructor.apply(this, arguments);
    }
    [...]
    ```

    Alternatively, you could use `sap.ui.core.Component.create()` and specify the `id` property as part of the arguments. For more information, see the [API Reference: `sap.ui.core.Component/methods/sap.ui.core.Component.create`](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.core.Component/methods/sap.ui.core.Component.create). 


> ### Note:  
> In order to support SAPUI5 flexibility features, all embedded components should have a stable ID. For more information, see [SAPUI5 Flexibility: Adapting UIs Made Easy](../04_Essentials/sapui5-flexibility-adapting-uis-made-easy-a8e55aa.md).



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 **XML fragments** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

If you use XML fragments in your app, make sure they are instantiated with the correct view ID prefix.To simplify this you can use the `loadFragment` function on your `sap.ui.core.mvc.Controller` instance.

Example using the controller function `loadFragment`:

```js
// "this" is the controller instance
this.loadFragment({
	// note: no ID prefix needed
	name: "my.fragment.SampleFragment"
});
```

Example using the generic function `sap.ui.core.Fragment.load`:

```js
// "Fragment" required from module "sap/ui/core/Fragment"
// "this" is the controller instance
Fragment.load({
	// note: ID prefix needed
	id: this.getView().getId(),
	name: "my.fragment.SampleFragment"
});
```



</td>
</tr>
</table>

> ### Note:  
> If some controls have disappeared after a software upgrade or the way in which they can be identified has been changed, this has a direct impact on the functions that depend on stable IDs. For this reason, the IDs, which are part of the public API of the app, must be kept stable over the life cycle of the app.



<a name="loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_lvk_cqp_3z"/>

## How to Name Stable IDs

Choose names for your stable IDs that describe the semantics of your views and controls, such as *page* or *table*.

> ### Note:  
> For the allowed sequence of characters, see the [namespace sap.ui.core.ID](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.core.ID). But bear in mind not use hyphens \(-\) as separators in your names as they would interfere with the ones that are added automatically by the framework.

Example:

Let's say you're building an app with a component called `myProducts`. You're using stable IDs for the views and contained views. Here's what the concatenated IDs that are generated at runtime look like:


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Component



</th>
<th valign="top">

Views



</th>
<th valign="top">

Contained Views



</th>
<th valign="top">

Concatenated IDs



</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top" rowspan="4">

 ***myProducts*** 



</td>
<td valign="top" rowspan="2">

 ***worklist*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 ***page*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 `myProducts---worklist--page` 



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 ***table*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 `myProducts---worklist--table` 



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top" rowspan="2">

 ***product*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 ***page*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 `myProducts---product--page` 



</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

 ***objectHeader*** 



</td>
<td valign="top">

 `myProducts---product--objectHeader` 



</td>
</tr>
</table>



<a name="loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_howtocheck"/>

## How to Check If All Your IDs Are Stable

With the Support Assistant, you can analyze whether there are any issues with the stable IDs used in your app. Here's how you can check this:

1.  Open your app in a browser.
2.  Enter the [shortcut](../02_Read-Me-First/keyboard-shortcuts-for-sapui5-tools-154844c.md)  [Ctrl\] + [Shift\] + [Alt\] / [Option\] + [P\]  to start the Support Assistant.
3.  In the *Technical Information Dialog*, choose *Activate Support Assistant*.
4.  In the table on the left, deselect all rules.
5.  Click on the *Rules* column.
6.  Filter for ***stable*** and choose *Enter*.
7.  Select the *Stable control IDs are required for SAPUI5 flexibility services* rule.
8.  Choose *Analyze*.

If any generated IDs are found, set the IDs for these controls manually as described [here](stable-ids-all-you-need-to-know-f51dbb7.md#loiof51dbb78e7d5448e838cdc04bdf65403__section_setstableid).

**Related Information**  


[Support Assistant](../04_Essentials/support-assistant-57ccd7d.md "The Support Assistant enables developers to check whether their apps are built according to the SAPUI5 best practices and guidelines.")

