<!-- loioad08c664c9d44b3daf4b6957b99638b4 -->

<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../css/sap-icons.css"/>

# What's New in SAPUI5 1.143

With this release SAPUI5 is upgraded from version 1.142 to 1.143.

> ### Tip:  
> If you want to do a search across all versions of the What's New content, you can also find it in the [SAPUI5 What's New viewer](https://help.sap.com/whats-new/67f60363b57f4ac0b23efd17fa192d60).

> ### Note:  
> Content marked as <span style="color:#666666;"><span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span></span>**[Preview](https://help.sap.com/docs/whats-new-disclaimer)** is provided as a courtesy, without a warranty, and may be subject to change. For more information, see the [preview disclaimer](https://help.sap.com/docs/whats-new-disclaimer).

****


<table>
<tr>
<th valign="top">

Version

</th>
<th valign="top">

Type

</th>
<th valign="top">

Category

</th>
<th valign="top">

Title

</th>
<th valign="top">

Description

</th>
<th valign="top">

Action

</th>
<th valign="top">

Available as of

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

Upcoming 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Deleted 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Announcement 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**End of Cloud Provisioning for SAPUI5 Versions \(Q4/2025\)** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**End of Cloud Provisioning for SAPUI5 Versions \(Q4/2025\)**

The following SAPUI5 versions will be removed from the SAPUI5 Content Delivery Network \(CDN\) after the end of Q4/2025.

**Minor Versions Reaching Their End of Cloud Provisioning**

The following versions including all patches will be removed entirely:

-   1.122
-   1.124
-   1.127
-   1.128
-   1.129
-   1.130
-   1.131

**Action**: Upgrade to a version that is still in maintenance.

**Patch Versions Reaching Their End of Cloud Provisioning**

The following patches will be removed:

-   1.38.62
-   1.71.70
-   1.84.50
-   1.96.37 to 1.96.39
-   1.108.36 to 1.108.38
-   1.120.21 to 1.120.23
-   1.122.2
-   1.124.7 to 1.124.10
-   1.127.3 to 1.127.6
-   1.128.1
-   1.128.1
-   1.129.0 to 1.129.2
-   1.130.0 to 1.130.3
-   1.131.0

**Action**: Upgrade to the latest available patch for the respective SAPUI5 version.

For more information, see [Version Overview](https://ui5.sap.com/versionoverview.html).

<sub><span style="color:#666666;"><span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span></span>**[Preview](https://help.sap.com/docs/whats-new-disclaimer)**•Deleted•Announcement•Info Only•Upcoming</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

9999-01-01

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

Upcoming 

</td>
<td valign="top">

UI Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Announcement 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**Accessible Personalization for Table Filters** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**Accessible Personalization for Filters**

> ### Note:  
> The following information concerns important upcoming changes for end users. These changes may require end users to adjust and/or test cases to be adapted, but they won't stop or disrupt software or processes.

We will revamp the personalization in the *Adapt Filters* dialog to allow users to personalize filter bars even more easily while ensuring accessibility compliance, enhancing user efficiency and satisfaction. For example, we will provide additional screenreader announcements, improve the usability of the screen content, and the display of certain UI elements.

<sub><span style="color:#666666;"><span class="SAP-icons-V5"></span></span>**[Preview](https://help.sap.com/docs/whats-new-disclaimer)**•UI Changed•Announcement•Info Only•Upcoming</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

9999-01-01

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**sap.ui.mdc.Table** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**sap.ui.mdc.Table**

-   We have introduced a new concept for positioning additional standard actions on the table toolbar that are not generated by the table itself but added by the applications, for example. If `ActionLayoutData` is used, this ensures they are correctly ordered and grouped according to the SAP Design System guidelines. We have provided an enumeration that defines the supported positions and the extension points for those actions. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.mdc.Table%23aggregations) for the `tableActions` aggregation, the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.mdc.enums.TableActionPosition%23properties) for the related enumeration, and the [Sample](https://ui5.sap.com/#/entity/sap.ui.mdc.Table/sample/sap.ui.mdc.demokit.sample.table.TableActions).

-   We have introduced the `popinDisplay` property in `sap.ui.mdc.table.ResponsiveTableType`, enhancing the display flexibility of table columns. `Block` can now also be used instead of the default `Inline`. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.mdc.enums.TablePopinDisplay) and the [Sample](https://ui5.sap.com/#/entity/sap.ui.mdc.Table/sample/sap.ui.mdc.demokit.sample.table.TableTypes).


<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Deprecated 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.List`, `sap.m.Table`, `sap.m.Tree`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.List`, `sap.m.Table`, `sap.m.Tree`**

The `sap.m.ListMode.SingleSelect` mode has been deprecated and replaced by `sap.m.ListMode.SingleSelectLeft`, according to the SAP Design System guidelines. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.m.ListMode%23properties).

<sub>Deprecated•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

User Documentation 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**Documentation on Extending Apps** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**Documentation on Extending Apps**

We have updated our documentation on SAPUI5's mechanisms for extending applications. The revised version explains the various ways to configure app extensions, when to use each approach, and what to consider when updating your application. For more information, see [Extending Apps](../08_Extending_SAPUI5_Applications/extending-apps-a264a9a.md).

<sub>Changed•User Documentation•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Feature 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**SAPUI5 OData V4 Model** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**SAPUI5 OData V4 Model**

The new version of the SAPUI5 OData V4 model introduces the following features:

-   The option to use the SAPUI5 OData V4 model with an OData V2 service is now deprecated. To use the SAPUI5 OData V4 model, migrate your service to OData V4. For more information, see [Consuming OData V2 Services with the OData V4 Model \(deprecated\)](../04_Essentials/consuming-odata-v2-services-with-the-odata-v4-model-deprecated-365bdbd.md).

-   When using data aggregation, for example to display a grand total row, you can now use the contexts representing single records of unaggregated data as binding contexts. For more information, see [Relative Bindings](../04_Essentials/data-reuse-648e360.md#loio648e360fa22d46248ca783dc6eb44531__section_relativeBindings). You can request missing properties as described in that section.


<sub>Changed•Feature•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

SAP Fiori Elements 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**SAP Fiori Elements for OData V4** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**SAP Fiori Elements for OData V4**

The following changes and new features are available for SAP Fiori elements for OData V4:

-   The `ConditionalSwitch` building block is no longer experimental and is suitable for productive usage. For more information, see [The ConditionalSwitch Building Block](../06_SAP_Fiori_Elements/the-conditionalswitch-building-block-ba06542.md).

-   The `Status` building block is no longer experimental and is suitable for productive usage. For more information, see [The Status Building Block](../06_SAP_Fiori_Elements/the-status-building-block-8d8d810.md).

-   The `manifest.json` file is now the primary source for the configuration of building blocks. In case of a conflict, the manifest configuration takes precedence over both XML configuration and annotation definitions. For more information, see [Building Blocks](../06_SAP_Fiori_Elements/building-blocks-24c1304.md).

-   You can now define quick views in ABAP-based services. For more information, see [Enabling Quick Views for Link Navigation](../06_SAP_Fiori_Elements/enabling-quick-views-for-link-navigation-307ced1.md).

-   The unit of measure is now a required field when filtering for measure field values in the filter bar. For more information, see [Configuring Filter Fields](../06_SAP_Fiori_Elements/configuring-filter-fields-f5dcb29.md).


<sub>Changed•SAP Fiori Elements•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.tnt.SideNavigation`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.tnt.SideNavigation`**

The `sap.tnt.SideNavigation` now features text wrapping for `NavigationListItem` objects, improving readability and user experience by preventing text truncation. Only items with `design='Action'` will remain truncating. This update provides better visibility for longer texts and offers flexibility in navigation width adjustments. For more information, see the [Sample](https://ui5.sap.com/#/entity/sap.tnt.SideNavigation/sample/sap.tnt.sample.SideNavigationWrapping).

<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.ui.integration.widgets.Card`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.ui.integration.widgets.Card`**

-   The `sap.ui.integration.Host` class has had its experimental tag removed, signifying its increased stability and readiness for broader use. However, please note that some specific properties and methods within the class remain experimental and may be subject to change. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.ui.integration.Host).

-   The updated Card Explorer documentation now includes an overview of supported platforms and features for Mobile native cards. This update provides developers with important information about compatibility and limitations, ensuring they are well-informed when creating UI Integration Cards that can be used in mobile-native products such as SAP Mobile Start. For more information, see the new section **Supported Platforms** in [Card Explorer](https://ui5.sap.com/test-resources/sap/ui/integration/demokit/cardExplorer/webapp/overview/supportedPlatforms).

-   Enhanced accessibility features in tile-like cards improve user experience by removing the `region` role when a card header is rendered as an `<a>` tag and the `displayVariant` is a tile variant. Additionally, when a card is rendered as a list item, `aria-labelledby` now points to the `<a>` tag for a better accessibility announcement.

<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.ui.richtexteditor.RichTextEditor`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.ui.richtexteditor.RichTextEditor`**

-   TinyMCE 5 has been removed from SAPUI5. Since the deprecation of TinyMCE 6 has already been announced with SAPUI5 version 1.138, please migrate to TinyMCE 7. For more information, see [Migrating from TinyMCE 5 to TinyMCE 7](https://www.tiny.cloud/docs/tinymce/latest/migration-from-5x/).
-   We've implemented a placeholder functionality in the `RichTextEditor` control, improving the overall user experience by providing clear instructions within the text editor.

-   Theming support has been implemented in TinyMCE, allowing users to apply default SAPUI5 themes within the content part of the editor.

    For more information, see [sap.ui.richtexteditor.RichTextEditor](../10_More_About_Controls/sap-ui-richtexteditor-richtexteditor-d4f3f15.md).


<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.MultiInput`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.MultiInput`**

We’ve introduced a new disable button in the `MultiInput` mobile dialog that automatically stays disabled when no tokens are selected and activates as soon as you select at least one token. This gives users an immediate visual indication of selected items. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.m.MultiInput) and the [Sample](https://ui5.sap.com/#/entity/sap.m.MultiInput/sample/sap.m.sample.MultiInput). Note that the button is visible in the Sample only when viewed on a mobile device.

<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td valign="top">

1.143 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Changed 

</td>
<td valign="top">

Control 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.MessageStrip`** 

</td>
<td valign="top">

**`sap.m.MessageStrip`**

The `MessageStrip` control has been enhanced with new properties, `colorSet` and `colorScheme`, allowing developers to apply custom color palettes beyond standard semantic colors. For more information, see the [API Reference](https://ui5.sap.com/#/api/sap.m.MessageStrip) and the [Sample](https://ui5.sap.com/#/entity/sap.m.MessageStrip/sample/sap.m.sample.CustomMessageStripDesign).

<sub>Changed•Control•Info Only•1.143</sub>

</td>
<td valign="top">

Info Only 

</td>
<td valign="top">

2025-11-27

</td>
</tr>
</table>

